---
title: "Trust authority"
weight: 1
---

One key party of Informo's trust management mechanisms is called "trust authorities", often also referred as "TA". As defined in [this documentation's terminology](/introduction/terminology/#trust-authority-ta), a trust authority is an entity that asserts the trustworthiness of another entity, whether this entity is an information source or another trust authority. It does so by using asymmetric cryptographic signatures using [ed25519](https://ed25519.cr.yp.to/).

A trust authority **must** register itself as such on the Matrix room. This registration must include data on the organism operating the TA, along with the list of its public signature verification keys and the list of all of the sources and trust authorities it trusts. This list **must** include, for each trusted source and TA, an ed25519 signature generated by one of the TA's public keys. This signature **must** be generated from a string containing the identifier (2️⃣: MXID), type (either "source" or "trust_authority") public name and list of public keys of the specific source or TA, and **must** be formatted the same way as follows:

```
id="@acmenews:weu.informo.network"&type="source"&name="ACME News"&keys=["somekey","someotherkey"]
```

In the example string above, the target entity is a source using the identifier `@acmenews:weu.informo.network`, the public name `ACME News` and `somekey` and `someotherkey` as its public signature verification keys.

In the event of one of a TA's private keys being compromised, it **must** update its list of public signature verification keys by removing the compromised key (and adding one new key or more to the said list), and the other trust authorities trusting this TA **must** compute and issue a new signature taking the updated list of keys into account.

A user **must** be able to chose which TA they want to give their absolute trust to, whether that TA is itself trusted by another TA or not. This model follows the outlines of [Delegative Democracy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delegative_democracy), as it allows a user to either trust a source based on their own research and criteria, or delegate the assertion of a source's trustworthiness to another party.

A trust authority's main responsibility is to assert the trustworthiness of a source or of another TA. This means that the TA **must** publish a list of all of the sources and TAs it trusts, keep it up to date, and give the information needed to certify the sources' and TAs' authenticity.

If a user chooses to trust a specific TA, let's name it *SomeNGO.org* here for the sake of simplicity, all sources and TAs trusted by *SomeNGO.org* **must** be considered as trustworthy by clients in accordance with their chosen trust level (documented in [the related section](/trust-management/trust-level/)).

A trust authority **must** also be able to list sources and trust authorities that it explicitly blacklists for being compromised or ethical reasons, along with the reasons for each addition to the blacklist (2️⃣: identification on MXID, reasons identifier).

## Suggested trust authority

In order to guide a new user through building his trusted network when they enters a Matrix room (i.e. an Informo federation), the room's administrator **can** provide a list of suggested TAs (2️⃣: stored in Matrix room state). These TAs will be proposed to the users if they doesn't know which TA they should trust first.

As an additional security step, the client implementation maintainer **should** add the suggested trust authorities' public signature verification keys to the implementation's code base, so the user doesn't retrieve these keys through a potentially insecure network. This is an important step because these TAs represent the foundations of the user's trust network. In the event of an embedded public key getting compromised, trust authorities **must** make implementation maintainers aware of it, and implementation maintainers **must** release another version of their implementation which **must not** include the compromised key.

## Client implementations

In the event of a source being trusted by a TA *A* and blacklisted by a TA *B*, given that both *A* and *B* are being trusted by the user, clients **must** display a warning to users, indicating that, although some of the user's trusted TAs are still asserting the source as being trustworthy, some others explicitly stated that the source should not be trusted anymore, mentioning the reasons specified in the corresponding blacklist entry.

In order to help its users assert the trustworthiness of a source, a client **might** include the display of a graph showing the location of the source in Informo's trust network. It **might** also include a view promoting sources that have been certified as trustworthy by several TAs that the user trusts.

Clients can also compute the "trust distance" of a source or TA, i.e. the length of the shortest path between the source or TA and a trusted TA. This distance can be used to estimate how much a source or TA is reliable, and entities with the lowest values can be promoted to the user.
